src/content/docs/development/guide/component-docs-for-llm.mdx, before:

---
title: Component Documentation for LLM
sidebar:
  order: 4
---

This document provides comprehensive documentation for all custom components used in CppDoc. Each section includes a description, props, and usage examples.

## Behavior

The `Behavior` component gives highlight colors to its content, used for emphasizing keywords related to program behaviors.

### Props

- `kind` (required): One of `"well-def"`, `"impl-def"`, `"unspec"`, `"undef"`, `"ill-formed"`, `"ifndr"`.

### Usage


import Behavior from "@components/Behavior.astro";

It is <Behavior kind="well-def">well-defined</Behavior> to do this.

It is <Behavior kind="impl-def">implementation-defined</Behavior> how this is achieved.

It is <Behavior kind="unspec">unspecified</Behavior> which function argument will be evaluated first.

The behavior is <Behavior kind="undef">undefined</Behavior> to add two signed integers that overflows the result.

It is <Behavior kind="ill-formed">ill-formed</Behavior> to use an undefined identifier.

The program is <Behavior kind="ifndr">ill-formed no diagnostics required</Behavior> if it violates the one-definition rule.

## Declaration Documentation

### DeclDoc

The `DeclDoc` component gives brief introduction to a C/C++ declaration. It can contain multiple `Decl` components.

#### Props

- `autorevSince` (optional): The revision since which the declaration is available (e.g., `"C++11"`). Enables autorev.
- `id` (optional): A numeric identifier to display as "Declaration #id".

#### Slots

- `decl` (named): One or more `Decl` components.
- Default slot: The description text.

#### Usage


import { Decl, DeclDoc } from "@components/decl-doc";

<DeclDoc>
  <Decl slot="decl">
    ```cpp
    int main() { /* body */ }
    ```
  </Decl>
  A `main` function running independently of environment-provided arguments.
</DeclDoc>

Multiple declarations:


<DeclDoc>
  <Decl slot="decl">
    ```cpp
    int main() { /* body */ }
    ```
  </Decl>
  <Decl slot="decl">
    ```cpp
    int main(int argc, char *argv[]) { /* body */ }
    ```
  </Decl>
  A `main` function is the entry point of a program.
</DeclDoc>

With revision:


import { RevisionBlock } from "@components/revision";

<DeclDoc autorevSince="C++11">
  <Decl slot="decl">
    <RevisionBlock since="C++11" until="C++14" noborder>
      ```cpp
      template <typename T>
      typename std::remove_reference<T>::type&& move(T&& t) noexcept;
      ```
    </RevisionBlock>
  </Decl>
  <Decl slot="decl">
    <RevisionBlock since="C++14" noborder>
      ```cpp
      template <class T>
      constexpr std::remove_reference_t<T>&& move(T&& t) noexcept;
      ```
    </RevisionBlock>
  </Decl>
  `std::move` is used to _indicate_ that an object `t` may be "moved from".
</DeclDoc>


### Decl

The `Decl` component wraps a code block inside a `DeclDoc`. It has no props.

#### Usage

See above.

## Description List

### DescList

The `DescList` component is a general component for displaying a list of items and their descriptions.

#### Props

None.

#### Slots

- Default slot: One or more `Desc` components.

#### Usage


import { DescList, Desc } from "@components/desc-list";
import { CHeader } from "@components/header";

<DescList>
  <Desc>
    <CHeader slot="item" name="assert" />
    Conditionally compiled macro that compares its argument to zero
  </Desc>
  <Desc>
    <CHeader slot="item" name="ctype" />
    Functions to determine the type contained in character data
  </Desc>
</DescList>

### Desc

The `Desc` component represents a single item in a description list.

#### Props

- `autorevSince` (optional): Enables autorev for this item.
- `kind` (optional): A string displayed in parentheses after the description.

#### Slots

- `item` (named): The item being described (e.g., a header link).
- Default slot: The description text.

#### Usage


<Desc>
  <CHeader slot="item" name="assert" />
  Conditionally compiled macro that compares its argument to zero
</Desc>


With revision:


<Desc autorevSince="C99">
  <RevisionBlock slot="item" noborder since="C99" vertical>
    <CHeader name="complex" />
  </RevisionBlock>
  Complex number arithmetic
</Desc>


### DescItem

Internal component used by `Desc`. Not typically used directly.

## Parameters

### ParamDocList

The `ParamDocList` component displays a list of function or template parameters.

#### Props

None.

#### Slots

- Default slot: One or more `ParamDoc` components.

#### Usage


import { ParamDocList, ParamDoc } from "@components/param-doc";

<ParamDocList>
  <ParamDoc name="argc">
    Non-negative value representing the number of arguments passed to the program.
  </ParamDoc>
  <ParamDoc name="argv">
    Pointer to the first element of an array of `argc + 1` pointers.
  </ParamDoc>
</ParamDocList>


### ParamDoc

The `ParamDoc` component documents a single parameter.

#### Props

- `name` (required): The parameter name.

#### Slots

- Default slot: The parameter description.

#### Usage

See above.

## Links

### DocLink

The `DocLink` component renders an inline link to a page associated with a doc key or absolute path.

#### Props

- `dest` (required): The absolute path (e.g., `"/cpp/library/utilities/move"`).
- `section` (optional): The `id` of the HTML element to jump to, typically the `id` of heading tags generated from Markdown headings.

#### Slots

- Default slot: The link text.

#### Usage


import DocLink from "@components/DocLink.astro";

Check out <DocLink dest="/cpp/library/utilities/move">this page</DocLink> for more information.


If the doc key does not exist, the component renders as plain text with missing styling.

### CHeader

The `CHeader` component renders an inline link to a C standard library header.

#### Props

- `name` (required): The header name without the `.h` suffix (e.g., `"stdio"`).
- `displayName` (optional): Custom display text.
- `nolink` (optional): If `true`, renders as plain text without a link.

#### Usage


<CHeader name="stdio" /> is a C standard library header.


### CppHeader

The `CppHeader` component renders an inline link to a C++ standard library header.

#### Props

Same as `CHeader`.

#### Usage


import { CppHeader } from "@components/header";

<CppHeader name="vector" /> is a C++ standard library header.


### Header

Base component for `CHeader` and `CppHeader`. Not used directly.

### NamedReq

The `NamedReq` component renders an inline link to a named requirement.

#### Props

- `name` (required): The name of the requirement.
- `bold` (optional): If `true`, the text renders bold.
- `displayName` (optional): Custom display text.
- `nolink` (optional): If `true`, renders as plain text without a link.

#### Usage


import NamedReq from "@components/NamedReq.astro"

A <NamedReq name="FunctionObject" /> type is the type of an object
that can be used on the left of the function call operator.


## Feature Test Macros

### FeatureTestMacro

The `FeatureTestMacro` component renders a box that shows information about a feature test macro.

#### Props

- `name` (required): The macro name (e.g., `"__cpp_consteval"`).

#### Slots

- Default slot: One or more `FeatureTestMacroValue` components.

#### Usage


import { FeatureTestMacro, FeatureTestMacroValue } from "@components/feature-test-macro";

<FeatureTestMacro name="__cpp_consteval">
  <FeatureTestMacroValue value="201811L" since="C++20">
    Immediate functions
  </FeatureTestMacroValue>
  <FeatureTestMacroValue value="202211L" since="C++23">
    Making `consteval` propagate up
  </FeatureTestMacroValue>
</FeatureTestMacro>


### FeatureTestMacroValue

The `FeatureTestMacroValue` component represents a single value of a feature test macro.

#### Props

- `value` (required): The macro value (e.g., `"201811L"`).
- `since` (required): The revision since which this value is defined (e.g., `"C++20"`).

#### Slots

- Default slot: The feature description.

#### Usage

See above.

## Defect Reports

### DRList

The `DRList` component shows a list of defect reports.

#### Props

None.

#### Slots

- Default slot: One or more `DR` components.

#### Usage


import { DR, DRList } from "@components/defect-report";

<DRList>
  <DR kind="cwg" id={1003} std="C++98">
    <Fragment slot="behavior-published">
      supported parameter names of `main` were overly restricted
    </Fragment>
    <Fragment slot="correct-behavior">
      all valid parameter names are supported
    </Fragment>
  </DR>
</DRList>


### DR

The `DR` component renders a single defect report.

#### Props

- `kind` (required): Either `"cwg"` (Core Working Group) or `"lwg"` (Library Working Group).
- `id` (required): The defect report number.
- `std` (required): The standard revision to which the defect applies (e.g., `"C++98"`).

#### Slots

- `behavior-published` (named): Description of the behavior as published.
- `correct-behavior` (named): Description of the correct behavior.

#### Usage

See above.

## Missing Content

### Missing

The `Missing` component marks content that is still missing.

#### Props

None.

#### Slots

- Default slot: The text to mark as missing.

#### Usage


import Missing from "@components/Missing.astro";

See <Missing>this page</Missing> for more information.


## Revision Components

### Revision

The `Revision` component renders an inline span with revision-specific content.

#### Props

- `since` (optional): The revision since which the content applies.
- `until` (optional): The revision until which the content applies.
- `removed` (optional): Alternative to `until`, indicates removal revision.
- `traits` (optional): Array of `{ trait: string, since: CxxRevision }` for traits like "deprecated".

#### Slots

- Default slot: The revision-specific content.

#### Usage


import { Revision } from "@components/revision";

Some words here. <Revision since="C++20">This is introduced in C++20.</Revision> Some more words here.

<Revision until="C++20">This is removed in C++20.</Revision>

<Revision since="C++11" until="C++20">This applies from C++11 to C++17.</Revision>

<Revision since="C++11" traits={[{ trait: "deprecated", since: "C++17" }]}>
  This is introduced in C++11 and deprecated since C++17.
</Revision>


### RevisionBlock

The `RevisionBlock` component renders a block-level container with revision-specific content.

#### Props

- `since`, `until`, `removed`, `traits`: Same as `Revision`.
- `noborder` (optional): If `true`, removes the border.
- `vertical` (optional): If `true`, uses vertical layout.

#### Slots

- Default slot: The content.

#### Usage

<RevisionBlock since="C++11" until="C++20">
  This paragraph applies from C++11 to C++17.
</RevisionBlock>

<RevisionBlock vertical since="C++11" traits={[{ trait: "deprecated", since: "C++20" }]}>
  This paragraph is introduced in C++11, deprecated in C++20.
</RevisionBlock>


### RevisionSelector

The `RevisionSelector` component renders a dropdown for selecting a revision.

#### Props

- `revisions` (required): Array of `CxxRevision` strings.

#### Usage

Typically used automatically by the TableOfContents component.

### RevisionTags

Internal component used by `Revision` and `RevisionBlock`. Not used directly.

## AutoCollapse

The `AutoCollapse` component automatically collapses content that exceeds a maximum height, with an expand button.

#### Props

- `maxHeight` (optional): Maximum height in pixels before collapsing (default: 200).

#### Slots

- Default slot: The content to collapse.

#### Usage


import AutoCollapse from "@components/AutoCollapse.astro";

<AutoCollapse maxHeight={300}>
  Long content here...
</AutoCollapse>


## FlexTable

The `FlexTable` component creates a flexible table layout using CSS flexbox.

#### Props

None.

#### Slots

- Default slot: The table cells.

#### Usage


import FlexTable from "@components/FlexTable.astro";

<FlexTable>
  <div>Cell 1</div>
  <div>Cell 2</div>
  <div>Cell 3</div>
</FlexTable>


## WG21PaperLink

The `WG21PaperLink` component renders a link to a WG21 paper.

#### Props

- `paper` (required): The paper identifier (e.g., `"P1234R0"`).

#### Usage


import WG21PaperLink from "@components/WG21PaperLink.astro";

See <WG21PaperLink paper="P1234R0" /> for details.

Commit message:

feat: migrate cpp/language/basic_concepts/definition (#83)
* feat: migrate cpp/language/basic_concepts/definition

* feat: add component `Incomplete`

* feat: update docs for `Incomplete`

* fix: correct links in cpp/language/basic_concepts/definition

* fix: emphasize undefined behavior

src/content/docs/development/guide/component-docs-for-llm.mdx, after:

---
title: Component Documentation for LLM
sidebar:
  order: 4
---

This document provides comprehensive documentation for all custom components used in CppDoc. Each section includes a description, props, and usage examples.

## Behavior

The `Behavior` component gives highlight colors to its content, used for emphasizing keywords related to program behaviors.

### Props

- `kind` (required): One of `"well-def"`, `"impl-def"`, `"unspec"`, `"undef"`, `"ill-formed"`, `"ifndr"`.

### Usage


import Behavior from "@components/Behavior.astro";

It is <Behavior kind="well-def">well-defined</Behavior> to do this.

It is <Behavior kind="impl-def">implementation-defined</Behavior> how this is achieved.

It is <Behavior kind="unspec">unspecified</Behavior> which function argument will be evaluated first.

The behavior is <Behavior kind="undef">undefined</Behavior> to add two signed integers that overflows the result.

It is <Behavior kind="ill-formed">ill-formed</Behavior> to use an undefined identifier.

The program is <Behavior kind="ifndr">ill-formed no diagnostics required</Behavior> if it violates the one-definition rule.

## Declaration Documentation

### DeclDoc

The `DeclDoc` component gives brief introduction to a C/C++ declaration. It can contain multiple `Decl` components.

#### Props

- `autorevSince` (optional): The revision since which the declaration is available (e.g., `"C++11"`). Enables autorev.
- `id` (optional): A numeric identifier to display as "Declaration #id".

#### Slots

- `decl` (named): One or more `Decl` components.
- Default slot: The description text.

#### Usage


import { Decl, DeclDoc } from "@components/decl-doc";

<DeclDoc>
  <Decl slot="decl">
    ```cpp
    int main() { /* body */ }
    ```
  </Decl>
  A `main` function running independently of environment-provided arguments.
</DeclDoc>

Multiple declarations:


<DeclDoc>
  <Decl slot="decl">
    ```cpp
    int main() { /* body */ }
    ```
  </Decl>
  <Decl slot="decl">
    ```cpp
    int main(int argc, char *argv[]) { /* body */ }
    ```
  </Decl>
  A `main` function is the entry point of a program.
</DeclDoc>

With revision:


import { RevisionBlock } from "@components/revision";

<DeclDoc autorevSince="C++11">
  <Decl slot="decl">
    <RevisionBlock since="C++11" until="C++14" noborder>
      ```cpp
      template <typename T>
      typename std::remove_reference<T>::type&& move(T&& t) noexcept;
      ```
    </RevisionBlock>
  </Decl>
  <Decl slot="decl">
    <RevisionBlock since="C++14" noborder>
      ```cpp
      template <class T>
      constexpr std::remove_reference_t<T>&& move(T&& t) noexcept;
      ```
    </RevisionBlock>
  </Decl>
  `std::move` is used to _indicate_ that an object `t` may be "moved from".
</DeclDoc>


### Decl

The `Decl` component wraps a code block inside a `DeclDoc`. It has no props.

#### Usage

See above.

## Description List

### DescList

The `DescList` component is a general component for displaying a list of items and their descriptions.

#### Props

None.

#### Slots

- Default slot: One or more `Desc` components.

#### Usage


import { DescList, Desc } from "@components/desc-list";
import { CHeader } from "@components/header";

<DescList>
  <Desc>
    <CHeader slot="item" name="assert" />
    Conditionally compiled macro that compares its argument to zero
  </Desc>
  <Desc>
    <CHeader slot="item" name="ctype" />
    Functions to determine the type contained in character data
  </Desc>
</DescList>

### Desc

The `Desc` component represents a single item in a description list.

#### Props

- `autorevSince` (optional): Enables autorev for this item.
- `kind` (optional): A string displayed in parentheses after the description.

#### Slots

- `item` (named): The item being described (e.g., a header link).
- Default slot: The description text.

#### Usage


<Desc>
  <CHeader slot="item" name="assert" />
  Conditionally compiled macro that compares its argument to zero
</Desc>


With revision:


<Desc autorevSince="C99">
  <RevisionBlock slot="item" noborder since="C99" vertical>
    <CHeader name="complex" />
  </RevisionBlock>
  Complex number arithmetic
</Desc>


### DescItem

Internal component used by `Desc`. Not typically used directly.

## Parameters

### ParamDocList

The `ParamDocList` component displays a list of function or template parameters.

#### Props

None.

#### Slots

- Default slot: One or more `ParamDoc` components.

#### Usage


import { ParamDocList, ParamDoc } from "@components/param-doc";

<ParamDocList>
  <ParamDoc name="argc">
    Non-negative value representing the number of arguments passed to the program.
  </ParamDoc>
  <ParamDoc name="argv">
    Pointer to the first element of an array of `argc + 1` pointers.
  </ParamDoc>
</ParamDocList>


### ParamDoc

The `ParamDoc` component documents a single parameter.

#### Props

- `name` (required): The parameter name.

#### Slots

- Default slot: The parameter description.

#### Usage

See above.

## Links

### DocLink

The `DocLink` component renders an inline link to a page associated with a doc key or absolute path.

#### Props

- `dest` (required): The absolute path (e.g., `"/cpp/library/utilities/move"`).
- `section` (optional): The `id` of the HTML element to jump to, typically the `id` of heading tags generated from Markdown headings.

#### Slots

- Default slot: The link text.

#### Usage


import DocLink from "@components/DocLink.astro";

Check out <DocLink dest="/cpp/library/utilities/move">this page</DocLink> for more information.


If the doc key does not exist, the component renders as plain text with missing styling.

### CHeader

The `CHeader` component renders an inline link to a C standard library header.

#### Props

- `name` (required): The header name without the `.h` suffix (e.g., `"stdio"`).
- `displayName` (optional): Custom display text.
- `nolink` (optional): If `true`, renders as plain text without a link.

#### Usage


<CHeader name="stdio" /> is a C standard library header.


### CppHeader

The `CppHeader` component renders an inline link to a C++ standard library header.

#### Props

Same as `CHeader`.

#### Usage


import { CppHeader } from "@components/header";

<CppHeader name="vector" /> is a C++ standard library header.


### Header

Base component for `CHeader` and `CppHeader`. Not used directly.

### NamedReq

The `NamedReq` component renders an inline link to a named requirement.

#### Props

- `name` (required): The name of the requirement.
- `bold` (optional): If `true`, the text renders bold.
- `displayName` (optional): Custom display text.
- `nolink` (optional): If `true`, renders as plain text without a link.

#### Usage


import NamedReq from "@components/NamedReq.astro"

A <NamedReq name="FunctionObject" /> type is the type of an object
that can be used on the left of the function call operator.


## Feature Test Macros

### FeatureTestMacro

The `FeatureTestMacro` component renders a box that shows information about a feature test macro.

#### Props

- `name` (required): The macro name (e.g., `"__cpp_consteval"`).

#### Slots

- Default slot: One or more `FeatureTestMacroValue` components.

#### Usage


import { FeatureTestMacro, FeatureTestMacroValue } from "@components/feature-test-macro";

<FeatureTestMacro name="__cpp_consteval">
  <FeatureTestMacroValue value="201811L" since="C++20">
    Immediate functions
  </FeatureTestMacroValue>
  <FeatureTestMacroValue value="202211L" since="C++23">
    Making `consteval` propagate up
  </FeatureTestMacroValue>
</FeatureTestMacro>


### FeatureTestMacroValue

The `FeatureTestMacroValue` component represents a single value of a feature test macro.

#### Props

- `value` (required): The macro value (e.g., `"201811L"`).
- `since` (required): The revision since which this value is defined (e.g., `"C++20"`).

#### Slots

- Default slot: The feature description.

#### Usage

See above.

## Defect Reports

### DRList

The `DRList` component shows a list of defect reports.

#### Props

None.

#### Slots

- Default slot: One or more `DR` components.

#### Usage


import { DR, DRList } from "@components/defect-report";

<DRList>
  <DR kind="cwg" id={1003} std="C++98">
    <Fragment slot="behavior-published">
      supported parameter names of `main` were overly restricted
    </Fragment>
    <Fragment slot="correct-behavior">
      all valid parameter names are supported
    </Fragment>
  </DR>
</DRList>


### DR

The `DR` component renders a single defect report.

#### Props

- `kind` (required): Either `"cwg"` (Core Working Group) or `"lwg"` (Library Working Group).
- `id` (required): The defect report number.
- `std` (required): The standard revision to which the defect applies (e.g., `"C++98"`).

#### Slots

- `behavior-published` (named): Description of the behavior as published.
- `correct-behavior` (named): Description of the correct behavior.

#### Usage

See above.

## Incomplete

The `Incomplete` component marks a section to be incomplete.

#### Props

- `reason` (required): The reason why the section is incomplete.

#### Usage


import Incomplete from "@components/Incomplete.astro"

<Incomplete reason="no usage" />


## Missing Content

### Missing

The `Missing` component marks content that is still missing.

#### Props

None.

#### Slots

- Default slot: The text to mark as missing.

#### Usage


import Missing from "@components/Missing.astro";

See <Missing>this page</Missing> for more information.


## Revision Components

### Revision

The `Revision` component renders an inline span with revision-specific content.

#### Props

- `since` (optional): The revision since which the content applies.
- `until` (optional): The revision until which the content applies.
- `removed` (optional): Alternative to `until`, indicates removal revision.
- `traits` (optional): Array of `{ trait: string, since: CxxRevision }` for traits like "deprecated".

#### Slots

- Default slot: The revision-specific content.

#### Usage


import { Revision } from "@components/revision";

Some words here. <Revision since="C++20">This is introduced in C++20.</Revision> Some more words here.

<Revision until="C++20">This is removed in C++20.</Revision>

<Revision since="C++11" until="C++20">This applies from C++11 to C++17.</Revision>

<Revision since="C++11" traits={[{ trait: "deprecated", since: "C++17" }]}>
  This is introduced in C++11 and deprecated since C++17.
</Revision>


### RevisionBlock

The `RevisionBlock` component renders a block-level container with revision-specific content.

#### Props

- `since`, `until`, `removed`, `traits`: Same as `Revision`.
- `noborder` (optional): If `true`, removes the border.
- `vertical` (optional): If `true`, uses vertical layout.

#### Slots

- Default slot: The content.

#### Usage

<RevisionBlock since="C++11" until="C++20">
  This paragraph applies from C++11 to C++17.
</RevisionBlock>

<RevisionBlock vertical since="C++11" traits={[{ trait: "deprecated", since: "C++20" }]}>
  This paragraph is introduced in C++11, deprecated in C++20.
</RevisionBlock>


### RevisionSelector

The `RevisionSelector` component renders a dropdown for selecting a revision.

#### Props

- `revisions` (required): Array of `CxxRevision` strings.

#### Usage

Typically used automatically by the TableOfContents component.

### RevisionTags

Internal component used by `Revision` and `RevisionBlock`. Not used directly.

## AutoCollapse

The `AutoCollapse` component automatically collapses content that exceeds a maximum height, with an expand button.

#### Props

- `maxHeight` (optional): Maximum height in pixels before collapsing (default: 200).

#### Slots

- Default slot: The content to collapse.

#### Usage


import AutoCollapse from "@components/AutoCollapse.astro";

<AutoCollapse maxHeight={300}>
  Long content here...
</AutoCollapse>


## FlexTable

The `FlexTable` component creates a flexible table layout using CSS flexbox.

#### Props

None.

#### Slots

- Default slot: The table cells.

#### Usage


import FlexTable from "@components/FlexTable.astro";

<FlexTable>
  <div>Cell 1</div>
  <div>Cell 2</div>
  <div>Cell 3</div>
</FlexTable>


## WG21PaperLink

The `WG21PaperLink` component renders a link to a WG21 paper.

#### Props

- `paper` (required): The paper identifier (e.g., `"P1234R0"`).

#### Usage


import WG21PaperLink from "@components/WG21PaperLink.astro";

See <WG21PaperLink paper="P1234R0" /> for details.
